Merge and update `about-ql-packs` with `about-codeql-packs` (#10105)
github/codeql: docs/codeql/codeql-cli/analyzing-databases-with-the-codeql-cli.rst

  - a path to a directory containing query files
  - a path to a query suite file
  - the name of a CodeQL query pack

>     - with an optional a version range

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - with an optional version range
```

For more information about preparing your queries to use with the CodeQL CLI,
see ":doc:`Using custom queries with the CodeQL CLI <using-custom-queries-with-the-codeql-cli>`."

If you do not have the CodeQL repository checked out, you can execute the same queries by specifying the query pack name and the path to the queries::

   codeql database analyze --download <javascript-database> codeql/javascript-queries:Declarations/UnusedVariable.ql --format=csv --output=js-analysis/js-results.csv

Use the ``--download`` flag to download the query pack if it isn't yet available locally.

.. _run-query-pack:

> Running a CodeQL pack

Reviewer 2: I'm still not sure the order is right here and we have a bit of repetition, but maybe that's my fault for making a confusing suggestion in an earlier review. Let's not fix it in this PR though. I'll open an issue with my thoughts.

recursively, so any queries contained in subfolders will also be executed.

.. pull-quote::

   Important

   You should avoid specifying the root of a :ref:`core CodeQL query pack
   <standard-codeql-query-packs>` when executing ``database analyze``
   as it might contain some special queries that aren't designed to be used with
   the command. Rather, :ref:`run the query pack <run-query-pack>` to include the
   pack's default queries in the analysis, or run one of the
   code scanning query suites.

For example, to execute all Python queries contained in the ``Functions`` directory you would run::

   codeql database analyze <python-database> ../ql/python/ql/src/Functions/ --format=sarif-latest --output=python-analysis/python-results.sarif

If you do not have the CodeQL repository checked out, you can execute the same queries by specifying the query pack name and the path to the queries::

   codeql database analyze --download <python-database> codeql/python-queries:Functions/ --format=sarif-latest --output=python-analysis/python-results.sarif

Use the ``--download`` flag to download the query pack if it isn't yet available locally.

> 

Reviewer 2: This is almost a repetition of what is in the section on CodeQL packs above. Can we leave it out for now and address the structure of this whole section in a separate issue?

Author: I'll remove that. Really, we _should_ have the pack variant of the command coming first and the filesystem variant of the command second (if at all).

> If you do not have the CodeQL repository checked out, you can execute the same queries by specifying the query pack name and the path to the queries::
> 
>    codeql database analyze --download <python-database> codeql/python-queries:Functions/ --format=sarif-latest --output=python-analysis/python-results.sarif
> 
> Use the ``--download`` flag to download the query pack if it isn't yet available locally.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

   Important

>    You shouldn't specify the root of a :doc:`CodeQL pack

Author: Yes. I'll change the order. 

Custom packs might, or might not contain custom special queries. If you run the pack, it's generally safer since you don't know unless you inspect the pack. It's always safer to run the pack instead of the directory since there's no danger of running special queries.

I'll change it to say something like that.

>    You shouldn't specify the root of a :doc:`CodeQL pack

Author: Actually, I take that back, this paragraph really is focused on core packs.

   <about-codeql-packs>` when executing ``database analyze``
   as it contains some special queries that aren't designed to be used with
   the command. Rather, to run a wide range of useful queries, run one of the

>    LGTM.com query suites.

Author: Right...I haven't done a search for LGTM references. Looks like there are quite a few. Updating them is outside the scope of this change, but I will change _this_ lgtm reference. 

We should schedule some work to update other lgtm references.

>    LGTM.com query suites.

Reviewer 2: Thanks. We'll address the other LGTM references elsewhere. I think it makes sense to change this while we are so close to it!

For example, to execute all Python queries contained in the ``Functions`` directory you would run::

   codeql database analyze <python-database> ../ql/python/ql/src/Functions/ --format=sarif-latest --output=python-analysis/python-results.sarif

> If you do not have the codeql repository checked out, you can execute the same queries by specifying the query pack name and the path to the queries:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not have the CodeQL repository checked out, you can execute the same queries by specifying the query pack name and the path to the queries:
```

> If you do not have the CodeQL repository checked out, you can execute the same queries by specifying the query pack name and the path to the queries:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you do not have the CodeQL repository checked out, you can execute the same queries by specifying the query pack name and the path to the queries::
```

   codeql database analyze --download <python-database> codeql/python-queries:Functions/ --format=sarif-latest --output=python-analysis/python-results.sarif

Use the ``--download`` flag to download the query pack if it isn't yet available locally.

> After evaluating, a SARIF results file is generated. Specifying ``--format=sarif-latest`` ensures

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the analysis has finished, a SARIF results file is generated. Specifying ``--format=sarif-latest`` ensures
```
